---
title: "Cloud Hypervisor v0.8.0 Released!"
date: 2020-06-11T17:48:52Z
draft: false
contributors: [Cloud Hypervisor Team]
---
# v0.8.0

This release has been tracked through the [0.8.0 project](https://github.com/cloud-hypervisor/cloud-hypervisor/projects/10).

Highlights for `cloud-hypervisor` version 0.8.0 include:

### Experimental Snapshot and Restore Support

This release includes the first version of the snapshot and restore feature.
This allows a VM to be paused and then subsequently snapshotted. At a later
point that snapshot may be restored into a new running VM identical to the
original VM at the point it was paused.

This feature can be used for offline migration from one VM host to another, to
allow the upgrading or rebooting of the host machine transparently to the guest
or for templating the VM. This is an experimental feature and cannot be used on
a VM using passthrough (VFIO) devices. Issues with SMP have also been observed
(#1176).

### Experimental ARM64 Support

Included in this release is experimental support for running on ARM64.
Currently only `virtio-mmio` devices and a serial port are supported. Full
details can be found in the [ARM64 documentation](docs/arm64.md).

### Support for Using 5-level Paging in Guests

If the host supports it the guest is now enabled for 5-level paging (aka LA57).
This works when booting the Linux kernel with a vmlinux, bzImage or firmware
based boot. However booting an ELF kernel built with `CONFIG_PVH=y` does not
work due to current limitations in the PVH boot process.

### Virtio Device Interrupt Suppression for Network Devices

With `virtio-net` and `vhost-user-net` devices the guest can suppress
interrupts from the VMM by using the `VIRTIO_RING_F_EVENT_IDX` feature. This
can lead to an improvement in performance by reducing the number of interrupts
the guest must service.

### `vhost_user_fs` Improvements

The implementation in Cloud Hypervisor of the VirtioFS server now supports sandboxing itself with `seccomp`.


### Notable Bug Fixes

* VMs that have not yet been booted can now be deleted (#1110).
* By creating the `tap` device ahead of creating the VM it is not required to
  run the `cloud-hypervisor` binary with `CAP_NET_ADMIN` (#1273).
* Block I/O via `virtio-block` or `vhost-user-block` now correctly adheres to
  the specification and synchronizes to the underlying filesystem as required
  based on guest feature negotiation. This avoids potential data loss (#399,
  #1216).
* When booting with a large number of vCPUs then the ACPI table would be
  overwritten by the SMP `MPTABLE`. When compiled with the `acpi` feature the
  `MPTABLE` will no longer be generated (#1132).
* Shutting down VMs that have been paused is now supported (#816).
* Created socket files are deleted on shutdown (#1083).
* Trying to use passthrough devices (VFIO) will be rejected on `mmio` builds
  (#751).

### Command Line and API Changes

This is non exhaustive list of HTTP API and command line changes:

* All user visible socket parameters are now consistently called `socket`
  rather than `sock` in some cases.
* The `ch-remote` tool now shows any error message generated by the VMM
* The `wce` parameter has been removed from `--disk` as the feature is always
  offered for negotiation.
* `--net` has gained a `host_mac` option that allows the setting of the MAC
  address for the `tap` device on the host.

### Contributors

Many thanks to everyone who has contributed to our 0.8.0 release including some new faces.

* Anatol Belski <ab@php.net>
* Arron Wang <arron.wang@intel.com>
* Bo Chen <chen.bo@intel.com>
* Dr. David Alan Gilbert <dgilbert@redhat.com>
* Henry Wang <Henry.Wang@arm.com>
* Hui Zhu <teawater@antfin.com>
* LiYa'nan <oliverliyn@gmail.com>
* Michael Zhao <michael.zhao@arm.com>
* Rob Bradford <robert.bradford@intel.com>
* Samuel Ortiz <sameo@linux.intel.com>
* Sebastien Boeuf <sebastien.boeuf@intel.com>
* Sergio Lopez <slp@redhat.com>

### Download
 See the <a href="https://github.com/cloud-hypervisor/cloud-hypervisor/releases/tag/v0.8.0">GitHub Release</a> for the release assets.
