---
title: "Cloud Hypervisor v0.10.0 Released!"
date: 2020-09-18T13:42:24Z
draft: false
contributors: [Cloud Hypervisor Team]
---
This release has been tracked through the [0.10.0 project](https://github.com/cloud-hypervisor/cloud-hypervisor/projects/13).

Highlights for `cloud-hypervisor` version 0.10.0 include:

### `virtio-block` Support for Multiple Descriptors

Some `virtio-block` device drivers may generate requests with multiple descriptors and support has been added for those drivers.

### Memory Zones

Support has been added for fine grained control of memory allocation for the guest. This includes controlling the backing of sections of guest memory, assigning to specific host NUMA nodes and assigning memory and vCPUs to specific memory nodes inside the guest. Full details of this can be found in the [memory documentation](docs/memory.md).

### `Seccomp` Sandbox Improvements

All the remaining threads and devices are now isolated within their own `seccomp` filters. This provides a layer of sandboxing and enhances the security model of `cloud-hypervisor`.

### Preliminary KVM HyperV Emulation Control

A new option (`kvm_hyperv`) has been added to `--cpus` to provide an option to toggle on KVM's HyperV emulation support. This enables progress towards booting Windows without adding extra emulated devices.

### Notable Bug Fixes

- When using `ch-remote` to resize the VM parameter now accepts the standard sizes suffices (#1596)
- `cloud-hypervisor` no longer panics when started with `--memory hotplug_method=virtio-mem` and no `hotplug_size` (#1564)
- After a reboot memory can remove when using `--memory hotplug_method=virtio-mem` (#1593)
- `--version` shows the version for released binaries (#1669)
- Errors generated by worker threads for `virtio` devices are now printed out (#1551)

### Contributors

Many thanks to everyone who has contributed to our 0.10.0 release including some new faces.

* Alyssa Ross <hi@alyssa.is>
* Amey Narkhede <ameynarkhede02@gmail.com>
* Anatol Belski <ab@php.net>
* Bo Chen <chen.bo@intel.com>
* Hui Zhu <teawater@antfin.com>
* Michael Zhao <michael.zhao@arm.com>
* Muminul Islam <muislam@microsoft.com>
* Rob Bradford <robert.bradford@intel.com>
* Samuel Ortiz <sameo@linux.intel.com>
* Sebastien Boeuf <sebastien.boeuf@intel.com>
* Wei Liu <liuwe@microsoft.com>

### Download
 See the <a href="https://github.com/cloud-hypervisor/cloud-hypervisor/releases/tag/v0.10.0">GitHub Release</a> for the release assets.
